NOTE: This district's boundaries were changed in 2016. This map is not presently accurate.
The Third Congressional District of Florida is an electoral district of the United States House of Representatives located in the U.S. state of Florida. It presently comprises a large section of northernmost Florida, including the entire counties of Bradford, Columbia, Dixie, Gilchrist, Hamilton, Lafayette, Levy, Suwannee, and Union, along with the majority of Alachua and Clay counties, half of Madison county, and a section of Marion county. The city of Lake City is in the district, as well as the western half of Gainesville, and the western suburbs of Ocala.
Redistricting in Florida, effective for the 2012 federal elections, radically altered the nature of the 3rd District. From 1993 through 2012 the district called the 3rd District comprised an entirely different territory, roughly similar to the 5th District as of 2013. Likewise the present territory of the new 3rd District, as of the 2012 elections, is made up of parts of the former 2nd, 4th, 5th, and 6th districts, though it is geographically similar to the pre-2013 6th district. The former 3rd District was (and present 5th District is) an intentionally gerrymandered territory designed to unite disparate areas of northeastern Florida with significant African-American populations into a black-majority district, and was overwhelmingly Democratic in voting patterns.
The new 3rd District has a majority white population, largely in rural areas and small towns. The only cities of any size in the district are Gainesville and Lake City. It is one of the most Republican districts in the South, and among Florida districts, only the 1st is more Republican.
The new 3rd District is represented by Republican Ted Yoho, elected on November 6, 2012, and taking office on January 3, 2013. The old 3rd District was represented from 1993 through 2012 by Corrine Brown, who was elected to the similar new 5th District in the November 2012 elections.